h1. Communist Zombie Game

One of the main goals in this idea is to implement a room generation system
that can make interesting rooms with a minimum of fuss, and link them together
in a systematic, non-random way, so that I can make a vast, nearly infinite map
that players would be able to wander about on together, without having to
resort to hand-crafting the map or having the player store gigabytes of map
data.

One way to do this is by using a random number generator, and starting from
scratch, working our way from there. The biggest problem with this is
controlling the quality of the produced product. I think that with enough
testing and 'sanity' checking, this would be a surmountable obstacle.

h2. Combat:

A thought that I just had concerning combat: will it be real-time, or something
more turn-based? There are problems inherent in both approaches, and I will
have to think about them quite a bit until I figure out what would work the
best.

First, we'll take a look at a turn-based approach. The main game would have to
be real-time, in order to provide the sort of interactivity that I wish to have
in the game. Players need to wander around, and see other players wandering
around, even if they themselves aren't moving or doing anything. The world
needs to be active. With this approach, the timing of the game would change as
soon as combat was entered, be it with another player or with a non-player. The
turn based combat, if done in the style of most RPG games to date, would take
place in an arena area that was separate from the general map. This is to
facilitate a fair and equal balance between players. Combats taking place would
probably appear as icons or something similar on the world map, so that passing
players would know what is going on.

This approach has advantages and disadvantages, though.

h3. Advantages:

* The players need not worry about the surrounding environment when the combat
  is initiated. The combat takes place in an arena containing only the
  combatants.
* There would be either a controlled way for other parties to enter the combat,
  or there would be no way.
* Groups of people would be able to schedule combat, that is to say it would be
  very easy to create group-on-group matches, should that sort of thing be
  required.

h3. Disadvantages:

* There is a large area of possible exploitation, if players figure out some
  way to rig the system up to give them combat with weak, or high-experience,
  creatures.
* The switch back from combat would be jarring, in the sense that the
  participating players would have to quickly take into account the
  surroundings when combat ended.
* If a player can initiate combat with another player without that player's
  consent, a large group of 'greifers' would be able to easily take advantage
  of an area filled with players, keeping the players from enjoying the game by
  continuously initiating combat with them.

There are probably more issues with this turn-based form of combat, and I
really think that it wouldn't fit the idea of a communist zombie game, at any
rate. Zombies would be a terrible force in large numbers, and their inability
to swarm upon players already in combat would be something that completely
changed the game.

There is another idea, and that would be a real-time combat system. In a
roguelike environment, players have plenty of time to think what their next
turn would be. Unfortunately, this ability to think doesn't apply to a
real-time game. The controls would have to be quickly accessible, and easy to
figure out, so that a player may 'jump right in' with a minimum of
introduction.

As I think about it, a real-time system would be easy to exploit, with a
near-infinite run speed or 100+ attacks in a second, so there would definitely
have to be some sort of throttling facility to prevent that. This would more
than likely be in the 'sanity checking' part of the code.

h2. Environment:

The environment would be convenient to implement with a system like Dungeon
Seige's, where rooms link to one-another via their doors, and are separate
spaces in memory. This would allow for environments that span a great distance,
and allow the player to explore for a great while. Of course, the ability to
sense what is nearby is also important, and so the player would be able to see
past the doorways, or hear things from the next room over. This awareness needs
to be implemented in a way that is convenient to display, while at the same
time portable and not 'in the way.'

This will be an area that a lot of thought is given to.

h2. Character Development:

As per Squidi's idea, the player characters will be 'one-off' entities, that
disappear when they die. To soften the blow of death, the players do carry over
something they earn, called badges. When a character dies, their stuff remains,
ready to be picked up by other players (This aspect of the game will definitely
require a lot of thinking to manage, without extreme amounts of space being
used on the server.)

When a player starts a character, they will play a random choice from one of a
plethora of different character types, with randomized stats. They don't have a
choice in the matter, as the character they get is the character they will play
until the next death. I'm not sure if I will allow different chances for
different things, implementing a sort of common->medium->rare scheme of player
types. This will require thought.
